---
URL: https://sportsorthopedics.in/bone-joint-school/knee-pain/
Type: bone-joint-school
Title: Knee Pain | Sports Orthopedics
Scraped: 2025-04-05T17:48:19.666Z
---

Knee Pain
Home>Bone & Joint School>Knee Pain
Book an Appointment
Knee pain can affect all age groups. The reasons for the knee pain can range from injury, repetitive strain, infection, gout to arthritis. Knee pain can limit one’s ability to walk and bear weight on the leg. It can also be painful to touch.
Symptoms
Knee pain:
Knee pain can occur whenever particular activity is performed such as walking, climbing stairs, squatting, cross legged sitting. It can also hurt during rest. The area of pain is also an important characteristic which helps in understanding which structure of the knee has been affected.
Swelling: Swelling indicates that the knee is irritated. This can be due to mechanical causes such as rubbing, inflammation due to wear and tear or injury to the internal structures.
Stiffness: Stiffness can be due to swelling or muscle tightness. If stiffness is not allowing to straighten the knee, it means that something is mechanically blocking the knee from straightening.
Instability: Instability occurs when one or more ligaments of the knee are unable to support the knee well.
Conditions
​Injuries
ACL Tear
LCL Ligament tear
MCL Ligament tear
Knee Dislocation (MPFL Ligament Injury)
Cartilage tear
Patellar Chondromalacia
Fracture around the knee joint (Intra-articular fractures)
Wear & Tear
Patellar tendinopathy
Fat Pad Impingement
Quads tendinopathy
Osteochondritis Dissecans Knee
IT Band tightness
Loose body
Infection
Septic Arthritis
Prepatellar Bursitis
Inflammation
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Gout
Pseudogout
Arthritis
Osteoarthritis of knee
When to see a Doctor
Unable to bear weight
Unable to straighten the knee
Redness and swelling of knee
Persistent pain
Prevention of knee pain
Weight management
Maintaining flexibility and elasticity of the muscles
Regular exercises and stretches
Avoid prolonged sitting in same posture