---
URL: https://sportsorthopedics.in/bone-joint-school/shoulder-pain/
Type: bone-joint-school
Title: Shoulder Pain | Sports Orthopedics
Scraped: 2025-04-05T17:47:57.335Z
---

Shoulder Pain
Home>Bone & Joint School>Shoulder Pain
Book an Appointment
Shoulder pain can affect all age groups. The reasons for the shoulder pain can range from injury, infection, instability to arthritis. Shoulder is a joint with vast range of movement. This increased mobility comes with a price of the joint being prone to instability and injuries.
Symptoms
Shoulder pain can occur with movement in particular direction or with lifting objects in a particular angle. It can also hurt during rest. The area of pain is also an important characteristic which helps in understanding which structure of the shoulder has been affected.
Swelling. Swelling indicates that the shoulder is irritated. This can be due to mechanical causes such as rubbing, inflammation due to wear and tear or injury to the internal structures.
Stiffness. Stiffness can be due to swelling or muscle tightness. If stiffness is not allowing to lift the arm up, it means that something is mechanically blocking the free movements of the shoulder.
Instability. Instability occurs due to the labrum or lip of the socket being torn or stretches. This can be either in the form of subluxation where the joint is a bit loose or frank dislocation, where the joint is out of place and needs to be physically reduced back into place.
Conditions
Injuries
Bankarts (anterior) labral tear
SLAP tear
Kims (posterior) labral tear
Rotator cuff tear
Cartilage tear
Pectoralis Muscle Tear
Fracture around the shoulder joint (Intra-articular fractures)​
Wear & Tear
Shoulder Impingement
Biceps tendinopathy
Subacromial Bursitis
Loose body
Infection
Septic Arthritis
Infective Bursitis
Inflammation
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Frozen shoulder
Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
When to see a Doctor ?
Unable to move the shoulder full range
Redness and /or swelling of the shoulder
Persistent pain
Prevention of shoulder pain
Weight management
Maintaining flexibility and elasticity of the muscles
Regular exercises and stretches
Avoid prolonged sitting in same posture
Avoid drooping of the shoulders