---
URL: https://sportsorthopedics.in/bone-joint-school/shoulder-impingement/
Type: bone-joint-school
Title: Shoulder Impingement | Sports Orthopedics
Scraped: 2025-04-05T17:48:01.237Z
---

Shoulder Impingement
Home>Bone & Joint School>Shoulder Impingement
Book an Appointment
Overview
Shoulder joint is formed by the 2 bone ends coming in contact with each other – namely the glenoid surface of the scapula (shoulder blade) and the head or ball part which is proximal end of the humerus (arm bone). However we do have another part of the scapula (shoulder blade) called acromion over arching the shoulder joint and forming the roof of the shoulder. Hence whenever the shoulder has to move in certain directions, the bony bump part of the proximal humerus has to glide in beneath the acromion. If the space between these two bones is narrowed then the bones start rubbing each other during certain movements causing the pain. ​Shoulder impingement is by far the commonest condition causing pain in the shoulder joint.
Why & how does it happen?
Shoulder impingement happens due to multiple reasons. The shape of the acromion bone (shoulder blade) is one of factors increasing the risk of this condition. People with acromion type 2 or type 3 are likely to get this problem due to already less space in the shelf above the arm bone. Posture and sitting with shoulders rounded for longer periods and working increased the risk of this condition.
Who gets this injury?
Desk based jobs, overhead activity players including badminton, basket ball players, cricketers, weight lifters are more likely to suffer with this problem. Typical age group is 30 to 45 years.
Symptoms
Gradual onset of pain
Restricted range of movement
Clicking sounds
Painful to sleep on the affected side
Pain often felt the arm area and not in the shoulder joint area
When to seek medical help?
Initial assessment, an x-ray and pain relieving medicines form first line of management. Further assessment by a Sports Orthopedics Specialist will help in differentiating between the shoulder impingement and rotator cuff tear.
What happens to Shoulder dislocation if no treatment is undertaken?
Shoulder impingement entails repeated rubbing of the rotator cuff muscles against the bone. This can eventually lead to rotator cuff tear if not treated. Hence prompt treatment and cure of subacromial impingement is necessary.
What happens when I visit the Consultant?
You will be asked about the nature of injury, symptoms further to that so far. Consultant will examine you and discuss the treatment modalities.
What are the treatment options?
The treatment modalities vary from stretching exercises to steroid injection to arthroscopic subacromial decompression surgery depending upon the severity of impingement, type of bone alignment and profession.