---
URL: https://sportsorthopedics.in/bone-joint-school/de-quervains-tenosynovitis/
Type: bone-joint-school
Title: De Quervains Tenosynovitis | Sports Orthopedics
Scraped: 2025-04-05T17:48:32.809Z
---

De Quervains Tenosynovitis
Home>Bone & Joint School>De Quervains Tenosynovitis
Book an Appointment
Overview
APL (Abductor Hallucis Longus) and EHB (Extensor Pollicis Brevis) are the two long muscle tendons from forearm that control the movement of the thumb. These tendons help pull the thumb up and also to stretch it sideways. These tendons are held in place by the band which is just proximal ( above) to the wrist at the base of the thumb. If the band is tighter than necessary, it restricts the movements of the thumb and causes pain.
Why does De Quervains Tenosynovitis happen?
As the tendon has to pass under the band of tissue around the wrist area, the tendons can get thickened and also the band above can become more stiff.
Who gets De Quervains Tenosynovitis?
De Quervains Tenosynovitis is more common in diabetics, patients with hypothyroidism, musicians, keyboard users. Pregnant women during pregnancy or post delivery are likely to get
De Quervains tenosynovitis due to the hormonal changes and weight changes.
Symptoms
Pain on lifting the objects
Thumb base pain
Wrist pain
Pain with stiffness in movement of thumb and wrist
Natural History (Progression of disease in the absence of treatment)
De Quervain’s tenosynovitis is a non-progressive condition. However the debilitating symptoms of pain and stiffness in using the thumb may remain for 1 to 2 years. The pain gradually resolves over a long period of time, but some amount of stiffness is likely to persist.
When to seek medical help?
Clinical assessment is sufficient to diagnose this condition. X-ray are un-necessary. Pain relieving medicines will have temporary relief.
​What happens when I visit the Consultant?
You will be asked about the nature of injury, symptoms further to that so far. Consultant will examine you and discuss the treatment modalities. In majority of cases, MRI scan wouldn’t be required in the initial assessment. The consultant may ask you to go undergo blood tests to check for the blood sugar levels and thyroid hormone levels.
What are the Treatment Options?
The De Quervains tenosynovitis treatment modalities range from under warm water exercises to an injection to De Quervains release surgery depending upon the nature of symptoms and duration.