---
URL: https://sportsorthopedics.in/publication/knee-cartilage-loss/
Type: publication
Title: Here Is Why Increasing Cases Of Cartilage Loss Among The Youth Is Worrisome | Sports Orthopedics
Scraped: 2025-04-05T17:49:10.877Z
---

Here Is Why Increasing Cases Of Cartilage Loss Among The Youth Is Worrisome
Author
Dr Naveen Kumar LVMBBS, MS Orth, FRCS Orth (Eng), MCh Hip & Knee (UK)MSc Orth (UK), Dip SICOT (Italy), FEBOT (Portugal),MRCGP (UK), Dip FIFA SM (Switzerland), (FSEM (UK))
Cartilage loss, also known as cartilage degeneration or osteoarthritis, is a condition that affects millions of individuals. The supple, rubbery tissue, known as cartilage, covers the ends of bones in joints and acts as a cushion or support during motion.
Due to regular activity, trauma, or genetic factors, the cartilage can degrade and in some cases, even disintegrate, over time. Although cartilage deterioration is most frequently linked to aging, the phenomenon can also affect younger people, especially those who are highly physically active or have suffered joint injuries.
​To treat cartilage loss, one must understand the type of cartilage loss he/she is experiencing. In most cases old and middle-aged population experience cartilage loss mostly due to Osteoarthritis. This can be treated in a surgical and non-surgical manner, depending the condition of the patient. However, of late, a number of young people are coming to hospitals with cartilage loss in certain specific areas of joints.
​There are many reasons for the loss of cartilage in the human body. These include acute injuries in specific areas, involvement in uncommon activities, undertaking intensive activities without a proper warm-up, a sedentary lifestyle, and taking part in vigorous sports, to name a few.
​Change in lifestyle is a major reason not just for cartilage loss, but also for a variety of other health conditions. The sedentary lifestyle of today’s youth involves little exercise and spending long hours sitting in front of a laptop and working. This negatively affects the bones and joints, which leads to damage to the cartilage.
Unhealthful eating habit is also to blame for cartilage damage and loss. Consuming a lot of processed foods and sugary beverages can cause joint damage and inflammation.
Cartilage damage and loss are also caused by the prevalence of obesity and the increase in weight bearing on the joints, especially of the hips and legs.
​Symptoms of cartilage loss
​There are various symptoms of cartilage loss among youth. However, the major symptoms are:
Joint discomfort: The damaged joint may experience pain due to cartilage loss. The pain and discomfort could be continuous or flare up while exercising.
Joint stiffness: The joint may feel rigid, making it challenging to move or bend.
Edema: In the afflicted joint, cartilage loss can lead to inflammation and edema.
Clicking or popping: The joint may make a clicking or popping sound when it is manipulated.
​Impact of cartilage loss
When a cartilage is not functioning properly, the person experiences constant pain, because the bone gets exposed to direct pressure, sans the covering support of the cartilage. Because there is no smooth lining, the bones rub against each other causing depletion of the rest of the joint, resulting in excruciating pain.
Treatment options
Until recently, the treatment options for cartilage loss were limited. Microfracture surgical technique was quite widely practiced. Here, one would make tiny holes in the affected area for new cartilage to grow. However, the cartilage that was created did not have the same quality as normal cartilage. Although this technique does result in some improvement but was not considered substantial.
Pexels/Representational Image
Then came stem cell therapy. Though the therapy is considered effective, it is considered to be very expensive and is not affordable for a large section of the population. In addition to this, it is a long process as the cartilage has to be taken out of the body and sent to the lab to grow it, and then returned to the body.
About three-and-a-half-years ago a German company named Arthrex, introduced a technology, which, within a short span of time, was widely accepted by healthcare professionals. The cartilage developed by Arthrex behaves literally like natural cartilage. Chondroplasty—Auto-Cart perfected by Arthrex, is mostly used to repair or reshape damaged cartilage in a joint and can be treated in just one sitting. Considering the time taken and convenience of the other methods, this method has proved to be better.
Case study
Recently a similar case was handled where a 35-year-old lady also experienced a loss of cartilage and came to the hospital in severe condition. Before approaching Dr Naveen the patient took
Platelet-rich plasma PRP injections but received no relief. Following a scan, we came to know that she was suffering from Grade 4 Articular Cartilage. Generally, for patients in Grades 1 or 2, PRP injections work perfectly. However, in this case, Garima was advised for surgery. On March 24, 2023, we performed Chondroplasty using Auto-Cart which turned out to be successful. Post-surgery, after undergoing strict physiotherapy, she was able to bend her leg 60 degrees in two weeks and
resumed her daily activities.